.TH chdosattr 1
.SH NAME
chdosattr \- change DOS file attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chdosattr
[
.B \-RVH
]
.I ATTR
.I FILES...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B chdosattr
changes the following DOS attributes of files:
.IP
\fBr\fP (READONLY)
.IP
\fBh\fP (HIDDEN)
.IP
\fBs\fP (SYSTEM)
.IP
\fBa\fP (ARCHIVED)
.P
The format of \fIATTR\fP is in two parts, in the format of
[\fB\+\-\=\fP][\fBahrs\fP], where the first part is the operator spec the second
part the DOS attributes. The operator \fB\+\fP causes the specified DOS
attributes to be added the existing DOS attribute set; \fB\-\fP causes them to
be removed; and \fB\=\fP causes them to be added and causes unmentioned DOS
attributes to be removed. If the operator part is omitted, \fB\=\fP is assumed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-R
Change files and directories recursively
.TP
.B \-V
Show version
.TP
.B \-H
Show help

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
on success
.TP
.B 1
when no file could modified
.TP
.B 2
on usage error
.TP
.B 3
when an error occurred but at least one file has been successfully modified

.SH BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
.P
The modification of the DOS attribute \fBs\fP(SYSTEM) requires
\fBCAP_LINUX_IMMUTABLE\fP(see capabilities(7)).

.P
For obvious reasons, the DOS attributes \fBs\fP(DIRECTORY) and \fBv\fP(VOLUME)
cannot be altered.

.SH NOTE
.P
In vFAT, exFAT and NTFS, only the READONLY attribute is controlled through owner
write permission bit. Linux kernel always sets ARCHIVE on files it creates and
modifies. HIDDEN and SYSTEM can only be controlled through \fB ioctl_fat\fP(2).
\fBlsdosattr\fP(1) and \fBchdosattr\fP(1) are the wrappers for the ioctl.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmod (1),
.BR chattr (1),
.BR ioctl_fat (2)
and the documentation on
.B ATTRIB
command in Microsoft Windows and various DOS.
