.TH lsdosattr 1
.SH NAME
lsdosattr \- list DOS file attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsdosattr
[
.B \-RadlVh
]
[
.I FILES...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B lsdosattr
lists the DOS attributes, size and VDL(valid data length) of files. The DOS
attributes are
.IP
\fBr\fP (READONLY)
.IP
\fBh\fP (HIDDEN)
.IP
\fBs\fP (SYSTEM)
.IP
\fBv\fP (VOLUME)
.IP
\fBs\fP (DIRECTORY)
.IP
\fBa\fP (ARCHIVED)
.P
Each file is shown in 4 columns that represent the attributes, size, VDL of the
file. When the option \fB\-l\fP is used, the columns are shown in the order of file
name, size, VDL and long attributes.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-R
List subdirectories recursively
.TP
.B \-a
Do not ignore entries starting with a dot('.')
.TP
.B \-d
List directories themselves, not their contents
.TP
.B \-l
Use long attribute names instead of single character abbreviations
.TP
.B \-V
Show version
.TP
.B \-h
Show help

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
on success
.TP
.B 1
when no file could be listed
.TP
.B 2
on usage error
.TP
.B 3
when an error occurred but at least one file was successfully listed

.SH NOTE
.P
Linux kernel does not provide a special interface for reading the VDL(valid data
length). If the in-kernel exFAT implementation is "VDL-aware", the VDL offset is
treated as the start of the "hole"(\fBSEEK_HOLE\fP) that ranges to EOF.
Therefore, the approximate VDL can be inferred from \fBlseek\fP(2) and this is
why \fBlsdosattr\fP merely prints the first hole it encounters as the VDL.

.P
In vFAT, exFAT and NTFS, only the READONLY attribute is controlled through owner
write permission bit. Linux kernel always sets ARCHIVE on files it creates and
modifies. HIDDEN and SYSTEM can only be controlled through \fB ioctl_fat\fP(2).
\fBlsdosattr\fP(1) and \fBchdosattr\fP(1) are the wrappers for the ioctl.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lsattr (1),
.BR ioctl_fat (2)
and the documentation on
.B ATTRIB
command in Microsoft Windows and various DOS.
