'\" t
.TH mkfs.exfat 8
.SH NAME
mkfs.exfat \- create an exFAT filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkfs.exfat
[
.B \-b
.I boundary_alignment
] [
.B \-s
.I sector_size
] [
.B \-c
.I cluster_size
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-F
] [
.B \-C
] [
.B \-h
] [
.B \-L
.I volume_label
] [
.B \-U
.I volume_guid
] [
.B \-P
.I type
] [
.B \-\-pack\-bitmap
] [
.B \-\-upcase\fR=\fIfile\fR
] [
.B \-v
]
.I device
.br
.B mkfs.exfat \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkfs.exfat
creates an exFAT filesystem by writing on a special
file using the values found in the arguments of the command line.
It is invoked automatically by
.BR mkfs (8)
when it is given the
.B \-t exfat
option.
.PP
As an example, to make a filesystem on the first partition on the first
SCSI disk, use:
.IP
.B mkfs.exfat /dev/sda1
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-boundary\-align =\fIalignment\fR
Specifies the alignment for the FAT and the start of the cluster heap.
The \fIalignment\fR argument is specified in bytes or may be specified with
\fBm\fR/\fBM\fR suffix for mebibytes or \fBk\fR/\fBK\fR suffix for kibibytes
and must be a power of two.
Some media like SD cards need this for optimal performance and endurance,
in which case \fIalignment\fR should be set to half of the card's native
boundary unit size.
If the card's native boundary unit size is not known, refer to the following
table of boundary unit sizes recommended by the SD Card Association.
.\" source: SD Specifications Part 2: File System Specification Version 3.00
.TS
center;
cb1s6cbcb,nnnn.
Card Capacity Range	Cluster Size	Boundary Unit
_
	\[<=]8 MiB	8 KiB	8 KiB
>8 MiB	\[<=]64 MiB	16 KiB	16 KiB
>64 MiB	\[<=]256 MiB	16 KiB	32 KiB
>256 MiB	\[<=]1 GiB	16 KiB	64 KiB
>1 GiB	\[<=]2 GiB	32 KiB	64 KiB
>2 GiB	\[<=]32 GiB	32 KiB	4 MiB
>32 GiB	\[<=]128 GiB	128 KiB	16 MiB
>128 GiB	\[<=]512 GiB	256 KiB	32 MiB
>512 GiB	\[<=]2 TiB	512 KiB	64 MiB
.TE
The default is always 1 MiB.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-sector\-size =\fIsize\fR
Specifies the sector size of the exFAT file system.
The \fIsize\fR argument is specified in bytes or may be specified with
\fBk\fR/\fBK\fR suffix for kibibytes and must either 512, 1024, 2048 or 4096
bytes.
The default value is the sector size reported by the device, or 512 bytes if the
device sector size cannot be determined.
An exFAT volume formatted with the sector size value other than that of the
device is unusable in most operating systems. \fBDO NOT use this option\fR
unless you're absolutely sure that you know what you're doing.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-cluster\-size =\fIsize\fR
Specifies the cluster size of the exFAT file system.
The \fIsize\fR argument is specified in bytes or may be specified with
\fBm\fR/\fBM\fR suffix for mebibytes or \fBk\fR/\fBK\fR suffix for kibibytes
and must be a power of two.
The default value is described in the following table:
.TS
center;
cb1s6cb,nnn.
Card Capacity Range	Cluster Size
_
\<7 MiB		512 B
\[<=]256 MiB		4 KiB
>256 MiB	\[<=]32 GiB	32 KiB
>32 GiB		128 KiB
.TE
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-full\-format
Performs a full format.
This zeros the entire disk device while creating the exFAT filesystem.
.TE
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-force
Allow overwriting a device that already contains a non-exFAT filesystem.
Without this option, mkfs.exfat refuses to format when libblkid detects a
foreign filesystem signature on the target device.
This safeguard is unavailable when exfatprogs is built without libblkid
support.
.TP
.BR \-K ", " \-\-no\-discard
Do not attempt to discard blocks.
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-partition\-table =\fIauto\fP|\fInone\fP|\fImbr\fP|\fIgpt\fP
Specifies the type of partition table to set up. If set to \fIauto\fR, which is
the default, the characteristics of the underlying device will be detected to
determine whether a partition table is required for Microsoft Windows systems to
be able to recognise the new volume. If MBR is selected, \fBmkfs.exfat\fR will
set up the volume with an MBR partition entry that covers the entire device
including LBA 0 that contains the MBR itself. This is known as a recursive
partition and is similar to what \fBmkfs.fat\fR creates when needed. If GPT is
selected, \fBmkfs.exfat\fR creates regular GPT structures with one partition
with all the available space allocated, and the new exFAT volume will be created
on the partition. The partition will be aligned to the boundary unit specified
with \fB\-b\fR option and must be at least 1 MiB.

To override the default behaviour, set to \fInone\fR to disable partition table
creation and set to \fImbr\fR or \fIgpt\fR to force \fBmkfs.exfat\fR to create
MBR or GPT, respectively.
.TP
.BR \-\-bootcode\-msg =\fImessage\fR
Specifies the message the x86 real mode MBR bootstrap program displays. If the
message is not terminated with \\r\\n(CRLF) newline characters, the newline
characters will be appended to the given message. Use \fBprintf\fR or \fBecho\fR
command to escape newline characters from command line.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-verify\-written
Verify filesystem metadata by reading it back after writing.
This option performs read-back verification of critical exFAT metadata
(boot record, FAT, allocation bitmap, upcase table, and root directory)
after each formatting stage.
When used with \fB\-f\fR option, also written zeros are also verified.
It is useful for detecting broken storage devices or devices that falsely
report successful writes without actually persisting data.
This option may slightly degrade formatting performance and is therefore
disabled by default.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Prints the help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-volume\-label =\fIlabel\fR
Specifies the volume label to be associated with the exFAT filesystem.
.TP
.BR \-U ", " \-\-volume\-guid =\fIguid\fR
Specifies the volume GUID to be associated with the exFAT filesystem.
It can be given in the standard, hypenized UUID format like
\fBaaaabbbb-cccc-dddd-eeee-ffff00001111\fR. Note: The volume GUID cannot be used
to set the the 8-letter ID reported by \fIblkid\fR or used as
the filesystem UUID in \fB/etc/fstab\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-pack\-bitmap
Attempts to relocate the exFAT allocation bitmap so that it ends at the
alignment boundary immediately following the FAT rather than beginning at that
boundary.
This strictly violates the SD card specification but may improve performance
and endurance on SD cards and other flash media not designed for use with exFAT
by allowing file-system metadata updates to touch fewer flash allocation units.
Furthermore, many SD cards and other flash devices specially optimize the
allocation unit where the FAT resides so as to support tiny writes with reduced
write amplification but expect only larger writes in subsequent allocation
units \[em] where the exFAT bitmap would be placed by default.
Specifying \fB\-\-pack\-bitmap\fR attempts to avoid the potential problems
associated with issuing many small writes to the bitmap by making it share an
allocation unit with the FAT.
If there is insufficient space for the bitmap there, then this option will have
no effect, and the bitmap will be aligned at the boundary as by default.
.TP
.B \-\-upcase=\fIfile\fR
Format the volume with the specified up-case table file in binary format. No
additional conversion or validation of the file is done by \fBmkfs.exfat\fR and
the binary contents of the file is written to the volume as-is. This is useful
for testing and debugging exFAT file system drivers. The scripts and example
up-case tables useful for this option are located in \fI/usr/libexec\fR and
\fI/usr/share/doc/exfatprogs\fR.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Prints only error messages while creating the exFAT filesystem.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Prints verbose debugging information while creating the exFAT filesystem.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Prints the version number and exits.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR mkfs.fat (8)
